1. Opportunities drive fantasy scoring at all positions.

Opportunities aren’t as important for pass-catchers as they are for running backs, but they still matter a whole lot. Projecting targets is the most important thing you can do when searching for pass-catchers, especially wide receivers. Tight ends see a greater percentage of their fantasy scoring come in the red zone, which is why you really need to emphasize touchdown-scoring opportunities and ability in that area.

2. Efficiency isn’t that important as a predictive stat, until the red zone.

It is difficult to predict efficiency overall, but much easier once an offense approaches the goal line; certain types of players—namely big ones—are much better at scoring than others. When you can match up size and red zone efficiency with opportunities, that’s ideal, especially at the tight end position.

3. Defensive tendencies can help predict efficiency and opportunities.

There are certain situations in which we should be examining efficiency more than usual, primarily when a wide receiver is set to be matched up on a shutdown cornerback. I like to use Pro Football Focus to see how often a cornerback shadows a top receiver and how frequently he just stays on one side of the field. In the latter scenario, a receiver might have a perceived poor matchup but not actually be in that bad of a spot in terms of efficiency. Plus, he’ll be more likely to get targeted when he’s matched up on the defense’s weaker cornerback.

4. Injuries affect targets a lot.

Finally, as with running backs, injuries matter a lot when it comes to the distribution of targets. However, it isn’t as simple as “plug in the backup.” When a No. 1 receiver goes down, someone new is going to jump into the starting lineup in his place. However, it’s very often the No. 2 receiver or the tight end who is asked to pick up the majority of the slack. This changes for different teams, but either way, the idea is that injuries offer value opportunities you can exploit if you can accurately predict an offense’s new target distribution.
